your AMD CPU is not running at full
potential and it's hurting your FPS most
Gamers don't even realize that stock bio
settings are slowing down their
performance adding input lag and causing
FPS drops but in the next few minutes
I'm going to show you the exact bios
tweaks that will unlock the max
performance on your AMD system and
there's no overclocking required so if
you want higher FPS lower input lag and
smoother gameplay stay tuned because
these settings will make a huge
difference so whenever you're in BIOS
all you're going to do is you're going
to press F7 if you're on MSI to go to
Advan mode or just click advanced mode
in your bios you're going to go to
overclocking settings and OC explore
mode if you have the settings set it to
expert and go to advance CPU
configuration now disable SPM mode and
disable NX mode if you don't use these
games like valerant and some other games
actually force you to enable this in
order to even launch the game so if you
play valerant or if you play face it
then you might have to keep these
enabled PSS support disabled and spread
Spectrum disabled as well then go to MD
overclocking at the top Precision boost
overdrive for the purposes of this video
and to give everyone the least possible
problems set this to enabled and smt
control if you have overheating problems
on a ryzen 9 or a ryzen 7 you can
disable this however on ryen 5 do not
disable this ln2 mode 2 this is just
some stuff for extreme overclocking it's
very unnecessary for what we do lclk DPM
if you have this setting set it's disabl
then go back go to amdc OBS Global
cstate control disabled this however if
you have really bad temperatures leave
this on auto and the easiest way to
figure out if you have really bad
temperatures is just you want to look at
CPU core temperature while you're gaming
if it's above 75° while gaming then just
leave this on auto power supply idle
control typical current idle and disable
IO mmu L2 mode one same thing as L2 mode
2 disable this cppc and cppc preferred
cores disable both of these then you're
going to go back go back and again and
scroll down asmp of course set us to
profile one or enabled and then fclk
frequency 4 am4 AKA people on ddr4
you're going to set this to the half of
whatever your frequency for the ram is
so for me it's 3,000 so I'm going to set
it to
1,500 now if you're on ddr5 you're just
going to set fclk frequency to 2,000
then uclk di 1 mode you're going to set
this to uclk equals mclk and then scroll
down go to Advanced Dand configuration
and what I like doing for ddr4 is I set
trr dor s to 4 and trrd L to 8 and t
fall to 32 now if you're on ddr5 set
them both to8 if you're on 32 GB of RAM
if you're on 48 GB of RAM TR RDL should
be on 12 then t for both ddr4 and ddr5
if you're following this guide you can
set to 32 now if you're on ddr4 you can
set it to 16 however you might start
getting some crashing and some memory
errors so if you just want to be safe
set to 32 scroll down and power down
enable if you're on am5 so gdr 5 do not
disable this if you're on am4 AKA ddr4
disable this tsme you could disable this
on both am5 and am4 and bank group Swap
this is only for ddr4 disable this and
bank group swap alt set to enabled and
DRM laty enhance again just for D ddr4
set this to enabled now on ddr5 you
might have data scramble in here just
disable that if you have that option
then go back and then just go to
motherboard settings on the left go to
advance disable MSI driver utility
installer and then go to PCI subsystem
settings disable resize bar support
disable above 4G memory and pcie gen
switch set to gen 3 or Gen 4 and then
chipset gen switch also Max that out
then just make sure ASM control is
disabled go back go to USB configuration
and enable xhci handoff then go back go
to super IO configuration go in here and
just dis sa it this this is just a
printer port so if you want to hook up a
printer to your PC with some special
cable then you could just leave this
enabled however literally almost 99% of
you watching do not use this so go back
go to integrated peripherals and if you
don't use the audio jacks on your PC or
if you don't use Wi-Fi Bluetooth you can
disable it here so for me I'm going to
leave all this enabled because I do use
it then go back back go to Windows OS
configuration and make sure to set this
to UEFI if you're going to be using
Windows 11 and set secure boot to
enabled if you're going to use Windows
11 and play valerant or face it however
if you don't use Windows 11 and you
don't play valerant or face it just
completely ignore what I just said then
go back and then go back again go to
security go to tr Computing if you don't
use Windows 11 and if you don't play B
right or face it you can just set this
to disable then go back go back again
and go to hardware monitor on the right
now AMD is very very sensitive to
temperatures the the lower the
temperatures are the higher the
frequency is on AMD so if you want the
best results from this video you want to
set your fans to full speed by pressing
F on MSI now depending on your
motherboard obviously might be something
else but you just want to set the fence
to full speed because the lower the
temperatures are the CPU is going to
boost higher thus giving you more
performance more FPS Etc and that's
temperatures are very important on AMD
and in general you want to make sure
that you're not hitting some crazy
number like 75 or 80° while you're
playing games cuz if you do the CPU has
to lower the CPU frequency down and
you're going to get stutters FPS drops
and more so make sure to Max this out
then go back now ideally you want to
save this as a profile so what you could
do is you just go to overclock your
profile that's blank and just set this
to like zilly video for example and then
just save over clock profile that's all
you have to do to save this for the
settings now let just say for example
there's a power outage or your seos
battery gets reset for whatever reason
you can just click load overclock and
profile and then it'll slad these exact
same settings that you did for watching
this video so that's pretty much the
majority of everything that you have to
do in this bios now depending on if
you're on am5 or am4 you might have to
worry about Ram speeds being a little
bit too high depending on what Ram you
bought so for the purposes of this video
you want to make sure that you're around
3,800 MHz for ddr4 and if you're on ddr5
just set it to 6000 do not set it
anything above that now that's pretty
much it there's not much else you could
do for AMD there is memory overclocking
and a little bit of CPU overclocking but
for the purposes of this video and for
the purposes of making this as safe as
possible and making it so everyone just
applies this and get a huge performance
boost I'm not going to cover that stuff
in this video but now what you would
going to do just press F10 and as you
see these are all the signs that we
changed just going to press yes on that
it's going to restart your computer it's
going to take a little bit longer to
pretty much boot up your PC just du to
the fact that we changed some Ram
timings and we enabled XMP so just give
it a second and be patient with it so as
you can see everything booted up
completely fine and we are in Windows
now you might see an orange tint on your
end that's just how my video is looking
right now because I have NightLight
turned on I am recording this at 2: a.m.
so just don't worry about that but as
you guys can see our CPU is running at
at pretty much a faster speed what it's
normally should be at and our memory is
at 3,000 MHz now this PC is pretty bad
this is my streaming PC so as you can
see it's a ryzen 5 36 and a GTX 1650 but
believe it or not in games like valerant
and fortnite I am able to get around 240
FPS on valerate I'm able to actually cap
it at 288 FPS which is double my refresh
rate now on fortnite I'm only able to
get 200 FPS unless I drop the resolution
down to 1280x 720
but yeah these settings help this PC a
lot but anyways that's going to be
pretty much it for these AMD bio
settings if you guys have any questions
on these bio settings drop down a
comment and I'll try to answer it if you
have a solid question other than that
that's going to be pretty much it for
this video guys hope you guys enjoyed
and hope you guys got more FPS and lower
input delay if you did like this video
subscribe turn on the post notifications
but yeah peace out but before you leave
if you guys want all this done for you
along with overclocking and some
optimization in window windows then go
to the first link in the description and
book a PC optimization service with the
best of the best on the internet peace